PowerShell Reverse Shells
In this section we’ll leverage
PowerShell one-liners to execute shells,
beginning with a reverse shell.
First, we’ll set up a simple
Netcat listener on Alice’s computer.
Next, we’ll send a reverse
shell from Bob’s computer.
Again, this is not as syntactically
clean as Netcat or socat,
but since PowerShell is native on
most modern Windows machines,
it’s important that we explore
this PowerShell equivalent.
To begin, let’s take a look at
the code and then break it down:
This may seem extremely complex when
compared to previous tools we’ve used.
However, PowerShell is is not
a single-function tool.
Because of this, we must use a complex
syntax to invoke complex functionality.
This code consists of several
commands separated by semicolons.
First, the client variable is assigned
the target IP address and port.
The stream variable gets
a NetworkStream class
to facilitate sending and retreiving data…
…and the byte array called
bytes is used as our buffer.
We then enter a while loop that contains
the various lines required for reading
and writing data to the network stream.
Note that the iex (“Invoke-Expression”)
cmdlet is a key part of this code chunk
as it runs any string it
receives as a command…
…and the results of the command are
then returned via the data stream.
Lastly, a call is made to close
the client connection.
This code can be rolled into an
admittedly lengthy one-liner
to be executed at the command prompt.
This one-liner may seem very
arduous at first glance,
but there is no need to memorize it.
We would likely copy-and-paste this type
of command during a live penetration test.
When we check our listener, we see
that Netcat received the reverse shell.
This PowerShell sequence
works as expected.
Remember, by simply replacing the
IP address and port number,
we can easily reuse this
reverse shell command.